about.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: About Me
permalink: /about/
---

Hi, I’m Ben, a front-end web developer in Greenville, SC for [Mediacurrent](http://www.mediacurrent.com/). In my free time I enjoy biking, hiking, gardening, exploring Greenville, learning new things, and hanging out at our awesome public library.

I create fun, innovative, accessible, and fast websites. I try to leave every bit I code I touch more readable, performant and accessible than I found it.

These are the accomplishments I'm most proud of:

 - Speaking at the first ever Gatsby Days conference on [trends in modern web development](https://benrobertson.io/general/trends-in-modern-web-development)
 - Wrote and marketed an [email course on web accessibility](https://benrobertson.io/courses/common-accessibility-mistakes/) to 500+ developers
 - Spearheaded the agency use of pattern libraries at my first job and wrote about it for [CSS-Tricks](https://css-tricks.com/build-style-guide-straight-sass/).
 - Learned Drupal 7 on the fly, developed an [award-winning Drupal 7 site for the University of Kentucky](https://www.upandup.agency/awards/upup-wins-ucda-excellence-award-university-kentucky-website) and became lead Drupal developer.
 - Led the team at my first job in documenting front-end and server configuration best practices to streamline current development and help onboard new developers.


<hr />

## Speaking

### Gatsby at Mediacurrent

- **Event:** Gatsby for Agencies and Teams: Better, Faster, Smarter Webinar
- **Date:** March 2019
- [Recording](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jRntYO4186Y)

In this webinar I shared a little bit about how we've introduced Gatsby into our workflow at Mediacurrent and how things have changed as a result.

I discuss:

- how Gatsby has changed our development process
- how Gatsby has influenced the types of projects we are able to take on
- how even things like hiring and advancement are changing as well

### Move Fast, Don’t Break Things: Trends in Modern Web Dev

- **Event**: Gatsby Days
- **Date**: December 2018
- [Recording](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/gatsby-days-mediacurrent-ben)

In this talk at the first Gatsby Days event, I discuss how trends in modern web development and moving away from "CMS-Centered Development". I share a case study from our first decoupled Drupal and Gatsby project at Mediacurrent.

I also discuss the different ways decoupling can change things at an organization, including the development process, but even beyond into hiring and client diversity.

### Common Accessibility Mistakes and How to Avoid Them

- **Event**: DrupalCamp Asheville
- **Date**: July 2018
- [Recording](https://benrobertson.io/accessibility/common-accessibility-mistakes-and-how-to-avoid-them)

I discussed four of my own homegrown principles for developing accessible websites:

1. Web Design is more than graphic design
2. Be ASAP: As Semantic As Possible
3. Websites should look good naked
4. Talk to your computer (Use ARIA attributes)

I also covered 10 common accessibility mistakes that I come across (and that I’ve personally made), and how to fix them.

### Component Based Development

- **Event**: DrupalCon Nashville
- **Date**: April 2018
- [Overview](https://benrobertson.io/announcements/component-driven-development-ui-patterns)

This full day training session starts with an overview of component-driven development, typical workflows, and benefits for teams and stakeholders, and then we dive deep into the workflow by building out a sample Drupal theme using the UI Patterns approach. We cover:

- An in-depth look at creating patterns including markup, styles, and behaviors
- Composing complex UI patterns by nesting simple patterns in larger patterns
- Integrating front-end patterns with Drupal using the UI Patterns module to simplify the process and preserve Drupal’s baked in goodies
- Advanced workflows with Sass, a Drupal 8 theme generator, incorporating ES6/Babel with patterns



<hr />

## Experience

### Mediacurrent
**Senior Frontend Developer** | December 2017 - Present

- Lead front end development for complex architectures utilizing **Gatsby, Drupal, Auth0, and Apollo Server**.
- Define requirements, **estimate** new features, **review** pull requests and provide **constructive feedback** for other front end developers.
- Refactor a complex **React/Redux** application for a major insurance company, increasing stability and maintainability of code and introduced unit testing strategy to **increase test coverage by 1370%**.
- Perform accessibility remediation for enterprise clients to bring them into **WCAG 2.1 AA** compliance.
- Speak and write effectively on various front end development topics including [accessibility](https://www.mediacurrent.com/blog/5-website-accessibility-checkers), [component-driven development](https://www.mediacurrent.com/blog/join-our-drupalcon-training-session-component-based-development-using-ui-patterns/), [React](https://www.mediacurrent.com/blog/myth-inaccessible-react), [Gatsby](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QiocnDGnKfs&index=6&t=0s&list=PLCU2qJekvcN1wzgVKymbjbGtZ3VgAWOdj), and [remote work](https://www.mediacurrent.com/blog/improve-your-remote-work-productivity-shutdown-ritual).

### Up&Up Agency
**Front End Developer** \| February 2015 - November 2017

#### Key Responsibilities:

 - Transform static design comps into fast, accessible, interactive, maintainable HTML/CSS/Javascript
 - Develop efficient, user-friendly backend content management systems
 - Integrate front-end development products with content management systems.

#### Accomplishments:

 - Spearheaded the agency use of pattern libraries and wrote about it for [CSS-Tricks](https://css-tricks.com/build-style-guide-straight-sass/)
 - Developed an internal [CSS style guide](/front-end/css-standards) for standardizing our approach to CSS/Sass for across all projects.
 - Learned Drupal 7 on the fly, developed an [award-winning Drupal 7 site for the University of Kentucky](https://www.upandup.agency/awards/upup-wins-ucda-excellence-award-university-kentucky-website) and became lead Drupal developer.
 - Developed documentation templates currently in use in all agency projects.
 - Streamlined build tool setup with Webpack, npm scripts and Grunt.
 - Led the agency adoption of SVG and automated build tools.
 - Led the team in documenting front-end and server configuration [best practices](http://docs.upupdev.net) to streamline current development and help onboard new developers.


#### Projects:

##### University of Kentucky Help Center | 2017

 - A knowledge base for students, alumni, and faculty to find the information they need to succeed.
 - I used CakePHP as a caching layer between a React.js front end the Salesforce Knowledge Base API.

##### [University of North Carolina](http://more.unc.edu/) | January 2017

 - A simple Wordpress microsite for the Friday Center at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.

##### [University of Kentucky Academic Exploration Tool](http://www.uky.edu/academics/) | November 2015

 - A tool to help current and prospective students discover their majors and programs based on their interests or career aspirations.
 - I developed the front-end of this project as well as the majority of the Drupal site-building/backend.

##### Design @ Up&amp;Up | October 2016

 - A custom Drupal 8 application that integrates with [Bugherd](https://bugherd.com/).
 - Our team uses it to upload jpg or png comps to a client project, and the client can use Bugherd to markup the comps with feedback.
 - It provides an intuitive way for clients to see their comps in the browser and a much easier way for us to collect and keep track of feedback.


##### Post, an internal content calendar tool | January 2016

 - I built an internal tool to help our account management team, our content strategy time, and our clients manage the content strategies that we are developing for them.
 - I developed the front end and backend.

#### Technologies Used:
 - HTML5
 - Sass
 - CSS
 - SVG
 - Javascript
 - React.js
 - Grunt
 - Webpack
 - Drupal
 - PHP
 - jQuery
 - Wordpress
 - CakePHP
 - Python
 - Django

### Freelance
**Wordpress / Frontend Developer** \| October 2014 - June 2015

 - Designed and implemented custom dashboards for a family of new and used car dealerships to provide high- level sales metrics for each dealership and the business as a whole, as well as monitoring the ROI of paid advertising campaigns to the upper management.
 - Developed and updated custom responsive Wordpress themes.
 - Technologies Used: HTML, CSS, SCSS, Less, Javascript, jQuery, PHP, Wordpress, Grunt, custom dashboards.


### Gannett
**Digital Strategist** \| October 2013 - September 2014

 - Utilized Polk automotive market data, Scarborough, Nielsen, and other marketing resources to help plan the sales strategy for automotive advertising sales teams at both our Greenville and Asheville newspaper locations.
 - Planned and executed strategic integrated marketing campaigns—paid search, SEO, social media marketing, email marketing, print, and targeted digital display—for franchise and independent automotive dealerships.
 - Developed a web analytics consulting process to help qualify new clients and increase revenue, achieving year- over-year revenue growth of 22%.


### Chicago Tribune
**Digital Advertising Sales Consultant** \| February 2012 - September 2013

 - Collaborated with marketing directors, property managers, and leasing directors to plan, budget, and execute successful multi-platform advertising campaigns for apartment communities in Chicago’s western suburbs.
 -  Developed advertising plans utilizing the Chicago Tribune Media Group and Apartments.com portfolio, including SEO services, web development, paid search, digital display, mobile, print, and pre-print advertising.
 -  Negotiated with new and existing clients to protect profit margins while securing customer satisfaction. Managed $800,000 of revenue from local and national Real Estate Advertisers, achieving 15% growth.

<hr>

## Side Projects / Volunteering

### Engaged Encounter
My lovely wife and I are presenting couples for [South Carolina Catholic Engaged Encounter](http://www.cee-sc.org/). We provide weekend-long marriage preparation retreats for engaged couples. I am also the treasurer.

### Second Nature Journal
**2013 - 2017**

I started and ran (with the help of some friends) an online journal for critical thinking about technology and new media in light of the Christian tradition, [Second Nature](https://secondnaturejournal.com/).

### IISTC
**2013 - 2017**

The IISTC ([International Institute for the Study of Technology and Christianity](https://iistc.org/)) is the non-profit we started to publish Second Nature. I'm was executive director.

<hr>

## About this site

This site is a simple, responsive [Jekyll](http://jekyllrb.com/) theme I designed and built using the Minima theme as the initial structure. The type is set in [Adobe Source Sans Pro](https://github.com/adobe-fonts/source-sans-pro).

Commit message:

Add an update about joining Gatsby.

about.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: About Me
permalink: /about/
---

Hi, I’m Ben, a senior software engineer in Greenville, SC for [Gatsby](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/). In my free time I enjoy hiking, spending time with my wife and children, and learning to play the banjo.

I create fun, innovative, accessible, and fast websites. I try to leave every bit I code I touch more readable, performant and accessible than I found it.

These are the accomplishments I'm most proud of:

 - Speaking at the first ever Gatsby Days conference on [trends in modern web development](https://benrobertson.io/general/trends-in-modern-web-development)
 - Wrote and marketed an [email course on web accessibility](https://benrobertson.io/courses/common-accessibility-mistakes/) to 500+ developers
 - Spearheaded the agency use of pattern libraries at my first job and wrote about it for [CSS-Tricks](https://css-tricks.com/build-style-guide-straight-sass/).
 - Learned Drupal 7 on the fly, developed an [award-winning Drupal 7 site for the University of Kentucky](https://www.upandup.agency/awards/upup-wins-ucda-excellence-award-university-kentucky-website) and became lead Drupal developer.
 - Led the team at my first job in documenting front-end and server configuration best practices to streamline current development and help onboard new developers.


<hr />

## Speaking

### Gatsby at Mediacurrent

- **Event:** Gatsby for Agencies and Teams: Better, Faster, Smarter Webinar
- **Date:** March 2019
- [Recording](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jRntYO4186Y)

In this webinar I shared a little bit about how we've introduced Gatsby into our workflow at Mediacurrent and how things have changed as a result.

I discuss:

- how Gatsby has changed our development process
- how Gatsby has influenced the types of projects we are able to take on
- how even things like hiring and advancement are changing as well

### Move Fast, Don’t Break Things: Trends in Modern Web Dev

- **Event**: Gatsby Days
- **Date**: December 2018
- [Recording](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/gatsby-days-mediacurrent-ben)

In this talk at the first Gatsby Days event, I discuss how trends in modern web development and moving away from "CMS-Centered Development". I share a case study from our first decoupled Drupal and Gatsby project at Mediacurrent.

I also discuss the different ways decoupling can change things at an organization, including the development process, but even beyond into hiring and client diversity.

### Common Accessibility Mistakes and How to Avoid Them

- **Event**: DrupalCamp Asheville
- **Date**: July 2018
- [Recording](https://benrobertson.io/accessibility/common-accessibility-mistakes-and-how-to-avoid-them)

I discussed four of my own homegrown principles for developing accessible websites:

1. Web Design is more than graphic design
2. Be ASAP: As Semantic As Possible
3. Websites should look good naked
4. Talk to your computer (Use ARIA attributes)

I also covered 10 common accessibility mistakes that I come across (and that I’ve personally made), and how to fix them.

### Component Based Development

- **Event**: DrupalCon Nashville
- **Date**: April 2018
- [Overview](https://benrobertson.io/announcements/component-driven-development-ui-patterns)

This full day training session starts with an overview of component-driven development, typical workflows, and benefits for teams and stakeholders, and then we dive deep into the workflow by building out a sample Drupal theme using the UI Patterns approach. We cover:

- An in-depth look at creating patterns including markup, styles, and behaviors
- Composing complex UI patterns by nesting simple patterns in larger patterns
- Integrating front-end patterns with Drupal using the UI Patterns module to simplify the process and preserve Drupal’s baked in goodies
- Advanced workflows with Sass, a Drupal 8 theme generator, incorporating ES6/Babel with patterns



<hr />

## Experience

### Gatsby
**Senior Software Engineer, Customer Success** | January 2020 - Present
Helping customers succeed using Gatsby beyond their wildest dreams!

### Mediacurrent
**Senior Frontend Developer** | December 2017 - January 2020

- Lead front end development for complex architectures utilizing **Gatsby, Drupal, Auth0, and Apollo Server**.
- Define requirements, **estimate** new features, **review** pull requests and provide **constructive feedback** for other front end developers.
- Refactor a complex **React/Redux** application for a major insurance company, increasing stability and maintainability of code and introduced unit testing strategy to **increase test coverage by 1370%**.
- Perform accessibility remediation for enterprise clients to bring them into **WCAG 2.1 AA** compliance.
- Speak and write effectively on various front end development topics including [accessibility](https://www.mediacurrent.com/blog/5-website-accessibility-checkers), [component-driven development](https://www.mediacurrent.com/blog/join-our-drupalcon-training-session-component-based-development-using-ui-patterns/), [React](https://www.mediacurrent.com/blog/myth-inaccessible-react), [Gatsby](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QiocnDGnKfs&index=6&t=0s&list=PLCU2qJekvcN1wzgVKymbjbGtZ3VgAWOdj), and [remote work](https://www.mediacurrent.com/blog/improve-your-remote-work-productivity-shutdown-ritual).

### Up&Up Agency
**Front End Developer** \| February 2015 - November 2017

#### Key Responsibilities:

 - Transform static design comps into fast, accessible, interactive, maintainable HTML/CSS/Javascript
 - Develop efficient, user-friendly backend content management systems
 - Integrate front-end development products with content management systems.

#### Accomplishments:

 - Spearheaded the agency use of pattern libraries and wrote about it for [CSS-Tricks](https://css-tricks.com/build-style-guide-straight-sass/)
 - Developed an internal [CSS style guide](/front-end/css-standards) for standardizing our approach to CSS/Sass for across all projects.
 - Learned Drupal 7 on the fly, developed an [award-winning Drupal 7 site for the University of Kentucky](https://www.upandup.agency/awards/upup-wins-ucda-excellence-award-university-kentucky-website) and became lead Drupal developer.
 - Developed documentation templates currently in use in all agency projects.
 - Streamlined build tool setup with Webpack, npm scripts and Grunt.
 - Led the agency adoption of SVG and automated build tools.
 - Led the team in documenting front-end and server configuration [best practices](http://docs.upupdev.net) to streamline current development and help onboard new developers.


#### Projects:

##### University of Kentucky Help Center | 2017

 - A knowledge base for students, alumni, and faculty to find the information they need to succeed.
 - I used CakePHP as a caching layer between a React.js front end the Salesforce Knowledge Base API.

##### [University of North Carolina](http://more.unc.edu/) | January 2017

 - A simple Wordpress microsite for the Friday Center at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.

##### [University of Kentucky Academic Exploration Tool](http://www.uky.edu/academics/) | November 2015

 - A tool to help current and prospective students discover their majors and programs based on their interests or career aspirations.
 - I developed the front-end of this project as well as the majority of the Drupal site-building/backend.

##### Design @ Up&amp;Up | October 2016

 - A custom Drupal 8 application that integrates with [Bugherd](https://bugherd.com/).
 - Our team uses it to upload jpg or png comps to a client project, and the client can use Bugherd to markup the comps with feedback.
 - It provides an intuitive way for clients to see their comps in the browser and a much easier way for us to collect and keep track of feedback.


##### Post, an internal content calendar tool | January 2016

 - I built an internal tool to help our account management team, our content strategy time, and our clients manage the content strategies that we are developing for them.
 - I developed the front end and backend.

#### Technologies Used:

 - HTML5
 - Sass
 - CSS
 - SVG
 - Javascript
 - React.js
 - Grunt
 - Webpack
 - Drupal
 - PHP
 - jQuery
 - Wordpress
 - CakePHP
 - Python
 - Django

### Freelance
**Wordpress / Frontend Developer** \| October 2014 - June 2015

 - Designed and implemented custom dashboards for a family of new and used car dealerships to provide high- level sales metrics for each dealership and the business as a whole, as well as monitoring the ROI of paid advertising campaigns to the upper management.
 - Developed and updated custom responsive Wordpress themes.
 - Technologies Used: HTML, CSS, SCSS, Less, Javascript, jQuery, PHP, Wordpress, Grunt, custom dashboards.


### Gannett
**Digital Strategist** \| October 2013 - September 2014

 - Utilized Polk automotive market data, Scarborough, Nielsen, and other marketing resources to help plan the sales strategy for automotive advertising sales teams at both our Greenville and Asheville newspaper locations.
 - Planned and executed strategic integrated marketing campaigns—paid search, SEO, social media marketing, email marketing, print, and targeted digital display—for franchise and independent automotive dealerships.
 - Developed a web analytics consulting process to help qualify new clients and increase revenue, achieving year- over-year revenue growth of 22%.


### Chicago Tribune
**Digital Advertising Sales Consultant** \| February 2012 - September 2013

 - Collaborated with marketing directors, property managers, and leasing directors to plan, budget, and execute successful multi-platform advertising campaigns for apartment communities in Chicago’s western suburbs.
 -  Developed advertising plans utilizing the Chicago Tribune Media Group and Apartments.com portfolio, including SEO services, web development, paid search, digital display, mobile, print, and pre-print advertising.
 -  Negotiated with new and existing clients to protect profit margins while securing customer satisfaction. Managed $800,000 of revenue from local and national Real Estate Advertisers, achieving 15% growth.

<hr>

## Side Projects / Volunteering

### Engaged Encounter
My lovely wife and I are presenting couples for [South Carolina Catholic Engaged Encounter](http://www.cee-sc.org/). We provide weekend-long marriage preparation retreats for engaged couples. I am also the treasurer.

### Second Nature Journal
**2013 - 2017**

I started and ran (with the help of some friends) an online journal for critical thinking about technology and new media in light of the Christian tradition, [Second Nature](https://secondnaturejournal.com/).

### IISTC
**2013 - 2017**

The IISTC ([International Institute for the Study of Technology and Christianity](https://iistc.org/)) is the non-profit we started to publish Second Nature. I'm was executive director.

<hr>

## About this site

This site is a simple, responsive [Jekyll](http://jekyllrb.com/) theme I designed and built using the Minima theme as the initial structure. The type is set in [Adobe Source Sans Pro](https://github.com/adobe-fonts/source-sans-pro).
